In our website, we are in chapter 3,
which is hearts of the webpage.
And we just went through the slides
here on the page, and so
now we are at part 1,
the content sectioning demo.
So let's open up that beginning code pen.
And let's take a look at what's
going on here here, all right.
So first of all, since I don't have
any other use for the JavaScript box,
down here in the JavaScript
box is one long comment,
which has all of those elements and you
can refer to these as we think about what
elements we should be putting
where on our page, okay?
So that is down there
in the JavaScript box.
We have some basic CSS styling, just so
we don't have to look at Times New Roman.
And now we are ready to mark up this page.
So let us go through this.
So the first thing I always recommend
people to do is they start doing their
markup, is to take a look at this and
do a quick read through.
And you can for the most part,
probably skim it.
So we can see here we have my Iceland
website, probably a title of the website,
we have something that kind of looks like
a Navbar, that's probably what that is.
This is probably a subheading,
about Iceland, right?
Then we have some information,
blah blah blah, we have some facts.
Kinda looks like Keys and properties
are keys and values, doesn't it?
Then we have some additional information,
Geography, Geology and Climate.
I will look at that, these
are spelled out in separate sections.
We have Geography, and then we have
Geology, and then we have Climate.
That might tell you something about
headings and that they're ordering their.
And then we have some information about
where this information came from,
and then we have information about
this weird person Jen Kramer who might
have compiled this information,
and we also have C also list,
here's some other things
we might think about, and
here's some other information about
this being a demo for front end masters.
And here's their contact information
down here at the bottom.
So a good way to start doing this is
just start by thinking about the kind of
content that we have and let's play some
really big elements here on the page.
Shall we?
Okay.
So my Iceland website what
element might we assign that?
>> H1.
>> That's probably the H1 isn't it?
Okay.
Right?
Straightforward enough,
what is the home about in contact?
>> Nav?
>> Probably a Navbar.
So, as I tell people,
that starts with Nav,
it ends with slash Nav but
it's an unordered list of links and
so another hill I will die on is that it
should be marked up as an unordered list.
I know the trend is not to do that but
I am going to do it.
One of the great things about Navbar is I
could do an entire course here on Navbars
and Navbar styling.
When you have this semantic markup,
you have all kinds of interesting elements
that you can grab on to for
styling your Navbar.
So a lot of people were like well it's
just extra markup but I'm here to tell you
you can make use of that extra markup as
you style, so it's a good thing to have.
So we have these allies.
Okay, so there that is.
Now what are these two things
together H1 and the Navbar?
What might that be?
>> Header?
>> It's probably some kind of header for
the webpage right?
So we can put in I head around this.
Okay, so
that's the first section of our webpage.
We have the name of the site,
and we have the navigation bar.
Now we go down here underneath of this,
and
we have a article here looks like right,
some kind of information about Iceland.
And then we have all these facts and
we have background and geography and
geology and climate, so
it looks like some kind of article, right?
This is information that could
potentially stand alone.
So we'll mark it up as such,
it is an article.
It starts about there at about Iceland.
And as we scroll down the page.
Geology, Climate that we have
this information here about where
the information came from,
we have information about who compiled
it we also have related links.
Okay, so potentially our
article is ending here right?
Because this part down here at
the bottom where it has the address and
the links that are down here in the bottom
for social media, what might that be?
>> Footer?
>> This might be a footer, right?
This might be a web page footer.
Okay?
And so let's think a little bit more about
the detail here inside of this footer.
We have this contact information here.
How might we mark that up?
>> An address element.
>> This might be an address element here,
right?
So make this a little bit bigger.
So this might be an address element.
This is contact information for
Frontend Masters.
Now, This brings
to mind another element, that is a perfect
place to use this particular element.
The BR element line breaks,
one of the most misunderstood
elements that are out there in HTML.
So, currently the way
the page is displaying,
is like these,
its just fronting master yellow
c60z63sweet3625, its all in one line,
right?
And no mater what country you are in,
postal addresses have some
kind of fixed formating.
When the formating content is critical
addresses are a great example,
a poem is another really
good example of that.
The BR element is absolutely appropriate.
If you're putting in the BR just to
make things show up on one line or
single spacing, then that's not
the right reason to use it.
You got to be using CSS to do that.
But here we need to communicate
the meaning that front end masters has
a postal address in the United States and
this is the way we format it.
So in this case we will use BR.
So I'm gonna put it after the name
of the company, after their street,
after their suite, after the city state.
After the email, which you're welcome
to mark up as a link if you wish.
After their Twitter,
maybe not after their Facebook,
all of that is going to be our address.
And when we're done there, it should
look more like an address, right?
A little bit more like an address down
at the bottom of the page, make sense?
Okay.
All right, so let's go back up
to the top of our article again
About Iceland, what would that be?
>> H2?
>> Probably an H2, right?
Only there's some controversy about it
multiple H1's on a page Google will
tell you that you can have
more than one H1 on the page,
because Google is used to
consuming really crappy HTL.
[LAUGH], okay?
But that doesn't mean that we should
do it for that particular reason.
So generally speaking people put
one H1 per page which would mean
that this must be our H2.
We never want to skip levels,
do not use your headings for
sizing the text that is why you have CSS.
So CSS can make that
whatever size you want.
But H2 is what we want
to convey semantically.
Okay.
Then we have probably what amounts to
a paragraph of information,
blah, blah, about Iceland.
And I have a note here don't
forget the superscript.
Yeah, square kilometers.
So there is a element for this too.
Sup, Because KM2
is very different than KM squared yes?
Yes, so again that's a meeting
you're trying to convey and so
exponents in this case those are great
things for using with superscripts.
There's also I'm sure you're
shocked to know and SUB, right?
For subscript in which
case that will go down.
Useful for chemical formulas and such.
Okay, but in this case we want
superscript for this one.
All right,
then we go on to our Iceland facts.
What is this?
How should we mark this up?
>> That's it.
Derrick M, deal.
>> Could be a deal?
Yeah.
What is the purpose of Iceland
facts here we're reading along,
we go about Iceland,
we learn about Iceland.
Then we have these facts that sort of
appear here, they're kind of related but
and then we go on to the Etymology here.
Is that necessarily what you would expect
to be reading as we go down the page,
as an article?
>> Either an H2 or
an H3 as a new content header.
>> It could certainly be an H3 for
the content header, sure.
It could probably be a deal, right?
Description list for this whole thing.
And, as you can pretty much guess,
we're gonna have DT's right?
Around coordinates, and we'll have a DD
around the actual coordinates, right?
And I'm not going to put all of these and
just to in the interest of time.
So you have a bunch of those for
the anthem the capital and
largest sitting in the official language,
but that whole unit of content.
Is that a thing that belongs
right there on the page?
>> Someone suggested sidebar.
>> It is kind of a sidebar, isn't it?
Functionally speaking,
it's a kind of sidebar.
And so the appropriate element
here would be a side, okay?
So aside is used when the information
is tangentially related
to what's going on here on the page,
but it is not the focus of the page and
it doesn't have to be read
in a certain order, so,
pretty much the definition of a sidebar.
We could lose this aside and
still have a perfect meaning and
understanding of this whole webpage,
so that is what the aside is for.
Functionally often we style these
sidebars, but we don't have to do that.
They could be styled right here in
line with the rest of the article,
depending on what we did, right?
Okay.
So then we'll go on to etymology.
Is this more of the article probably.
Yeah?
So this is probably another H3.
Okay, then we have our
description of the etymology.
Then we have this
interesting type of thing.
We have a Geography, Geology and
Climate, followed by geography.
How might we mark those two things up?,
>> Sounds
like they want a list of
the sections beneath that.
So does that all become a giant list?
>> It kind of does sound like
a kind of that sort of thing.
I'm not sure I would mark it up as a list,
but
I would definitely do something
like this is an H3, right?
So we're gonna go into a whole big
thing where these things might be
related Geography, Geology and
Climate, and then Geography,
you would wind up being an H4, right?
Because this is a subsection of that H3.
And depending on you might even
put a section around this.
I could go either way on that.
It just sort of depends on
your philosophy I guess.
I used to teach academically if
I had a student who did this I
wouldn't mark them off.
So if you wanted to do that and say
this is all related, remember related or
syndicated this is just related
it's not syndicated you could put
a section around that whole thing Okay, so
there's our geography blah blah,
we have geology, what would this be?
>> H4.
>> H4 Okay,
and then we have climate, that's an H4.
Great.
Okay, let's come back to, under geology
we have this image that is here
Okay, so we have our image There it is.
It's a geyser.
There's a sense here that there's
a caption that goes underneath of it.
>> Anybody is this a good way?
Should we just leave it like this?
Is there a better way to mark this up?
And if there's a better way to mark it up,
does anybody have a suggestion?
>> There's that fig caption
people were using earlier.
>> Yeah, maybe that fig caption thing,
maybe it's a figure right?
Okay.
Basically anytime you have an image and
texts that are related to each other,
you can make use of the figure tag, okay?
So text that goes underneath the image
they're related to each other.
And I want you to know,
before I put the code in,
I want you to note
the treatment of the alt text.
When we have a caption with it, one of
the things we tend to do as developers is
we just say I have a caption
great that's the alt text done.
But that is probably not the best way to
go about doing this, so the caption says
this is the erupting geyser in this valley
the oldest known geyser in the world.
The alt text says the photo
features blue sky with clouds and
a rocky landscape with a geyser erupting
straight into the air in the middle.
So the alt text should contain
the information that you as sighted users
would get just by looking at that picture
all that stuff is kind of obvious to you,
you probably don't even
like think those words.
The caption gives you additional
information about where this geyser is
located.
So for our non sighted friends, what we
wanna do then is we want to provide alt
texts that will give the information that
the sighted user would take from that
picture, is that helpful?
That's how you would go about thinking
about those two things they're different.
Okay.
So, we'll put figure around this.
Just like that,
that groups those two things together.
The figure element is really versatile,
someone started to do something
earlier where they had
a quote instead of an image,
that is a legit thing to
do with figures as well.
I love it that somebody was doing that.
But this is the most common way to
make use of the figure element,
we have figure, the image, and
then we have the fig caption.
And fig caption, if you wish if you
had more to say here you could put in
multiple paragraphs, or any other
markup that you want inside of that
fig caption element if you have
a really really long caption that goes
on forever like sometimes
you see in research papers.
>> Can we see how that turned out?
>> Yeah.
How did that turn out, so
this is just our raw unstyled html, okay?
So by default your figure will be indented
slightly off the edge of the page.
It puts a little bit of I forgot
whether it's margin or padding,
what are those two are on
the edge of the figure, okay?
Obviously you can change that with CSS.
Okay, so then going on here,
for figure and so forth.
And then down here at the bottom
we have our citation, and
we have this information is compiled
by and we also have a C also.
So maybe it's appropriate to put
all of this inside of a footer.
So this is the article footer,
as opposed to the footer for the webpage.
Okay?
So that footer element would go all
the way around all of our citations,
the compiled by and the C also,
C also is probably just a paragraph.,
Actually as I look at that maybe
that's actually a list, right?
C also here's a list of links,
URL/UL, and some LI's.
Okay.
This information here compiled by,
might be my contact information
>> So address?
>> Address.
Notice that I don't include the words
compiled by inside of the address tag,
the reason why is that address
should be strictly a contact
information compiled by as
not contact information, so
that's why we leave it outside of it
we can separate these by line breaks.
Or if you wanted to do something else
you could do that also probably, but
something like that.
Okay, I think I've got most
everything here in place.
So you see that now I've got my
web page completely sectioned.
I'm very clear on what it is
that I'm trying to communicate.
I have headings that make sense,
we start at the top,
they get smaller in number to help
people navigate this webpage.
We've got footers for the article,
we've got footers for the web page,
we've got a header for the web page,
and we're ready to get out to go
forward and put CSS styling in place.